README.md, before:


**Note:** This is a **read-only mirror** of the formal [Gerrit](https://gerrit.hyperledger.org/r/#/admin/projects/fabric) repository,
where active development is ongoing. Issue tracking is handled in [Jira](https://jira.hyperledger.org/secure/RapidBoard.jspa?projectKey=FAB&rapidView=5&view=planning)

## Status

This project is an _Active_ Hyperledger project. For more information on the history of this project see the [Fabric wiki page](https://wiki.hyperledger.org/projects/fabric.md#history). Information on what _Active_ entails can be found in
the [Hyperledger Project Lifecycle document](https://wiki.hyperledger.org/community/project-lifecycle).

[![Build Status](https://jenkins.hyperledger.org/buildStatus/icon?job=fabric-merge-x86_64)](https://jenkins.hyperledger.org/view/fabric/job/fabric-merge-x86_64/)
[![CII Best Practices](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/955/badge)](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/955)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/hyperledger/fabric)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/hyperledger/fabric)
[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/hyperledger/fabric?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/hyperledger/fabric)
[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/hyperledger-fabric/badge/?version=latest)](http://hyperledger-fabric.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest)

## Hyperledger Fabric

Hyperledger Fabric is a platform for distributed ledger solutions, underpinned
by a modular architecture delivering high degrees of confidentiality,
resiliency, flexibility and scalability. It is designed to support pluggable
implementations of different components, and accommodate the complexity and
intricacies that exist across the economic ecosystem.

Hyperledger Fabric delivers a uniquely elastic and extensible architecture,
distinguishing it from alternative blockchain solutions. Planning for the
future of enterprise blockchain requires building on top of a fully-vetted,
open source architecture; Hyperledger Fabric is your starting point.

## Documentation, Getting Started and Developer Guides

Please visit our
[online documentation](http://hyperledger-fabric.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) for
information on getting started using and developing with the fabric, SDK and chaincode.

It's recommended for first-time users to begin by going through the
[Getting Started](http://hyperledger-fabric.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started.html)
section of the documentation in order to gain familiarity with the Hyperledger
Fabric components and the basic transaction flow. 

## Contributing

We welcome contributions to the Hyperledger Fabric Project in many forms.
There’s always plenty to do! Check [the documentation on how to contribute to this project](http://hyperledger-fabric.readthedocs.io/en/latest/CONTRIBUTING.html)
for the full details.

## Community

[Hyperledger Community](https://www.hyperledger.org/community)

[Hyperledger mailing lists and archives](http://lists.hyperledger.org/)

[Hyperledger Chat](http://chat.hyperledger.org/channel/fabric)

[Hyperledger Fabric Issue Tracking](https://jira.hyperledger.org/secure/Dashboard.jspa?selectPageId=10104)

[Hyperledger Wiki](https://wiki.hyperledger.org/)

[Hyperledger Code of Conduct](https://wiki.hyperledger.org/community/hyperledger-project-code-of-conduct)

[Community Calendar](https://wiki.hyperledger.org/community/calendar-public-meetings)

## License <a name="license"></a>

<a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/"><img alt="Creative Commons License" style="border-width:0" src="https://i.creativecommons.org/l/by/4.0/88x31.png" /></a><br />This work is licensed under a <a rel="license" href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/">Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License</a>.

Commit message:

[FAB-6359] Update license text in README
The license text at the bottom of the
README is a bit confusing as it might imply
that the entire project is licensed under
Creative Commons
See [FAB-6326] for details

Change-Id: I3d98a3b9a248924a201312a8c415578a3d178964
Signed-off-by: Gari Singh <gari.r.singh@gmail.com>

README.md, after:


**Note:** This is a **read-only mirror** of the formal [Gerrit](https://gerrit.hyperledger.org/r/#/admin/projects/fabric) repository,
where active development is ongoing. Issue tracking is handled in [Jira](https://jira.hyperledger.org/secure/RapidBoard.jspa?projectKey=FAB&rapidView=5&view=planning)

## Status

This project is an _Active_ Hyperledger project. For more information on the history of this project see the [Fabric wiki page](https://wiki.hyperledger.org/projects/fabric.md#history). Information on what _Active_ entails can be found in
the [Hyperledger Project Lifecycle document](https://wiki.hyperledger.org/community/project-lifecycle).

[![Build Status](https://jenkins.hyperledger.org/buildStatus/icon?job=fabric-merge-x86_64)](https://jenkins.hyperledger.org/view/fabric/job/fabric-merge-x86_64/)
[![CII Best Practices](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/955/badge)](https://bestpractices.coreinfrastructure.org/projects/955)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/hyperledger/fabric)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/hyperledger/fabric)
[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/hyperledger/fabric?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/hyperledger/fabric)
[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/hyperledger-fabric/badge/?version=latest)](http://hyperledger-fabric.readthedocs.io/en/latest/?badge=latest)

## Hyperledger Fabric

Hyperledger Fabric is a platform for distributed ledger solutions, underpinned
by a modular architecture delivering high degrees of confidentiality,
resiliency, flexibility and scalability. It is designed to support pluggable
implementations of different components, and accommodate the complexity and
intricacies that exist across the economic ecosystem.

Hyperledger Fabric delivers a uniquely elastic and extensible architecture,
distinguishing it from alternative blockchain solutions. Planning for the
future of enterprise blockchain requires building on top of a fully-vetted,
open source architecture; Hyperledger Fabric is your starting point.

## Documentation, Getting Started and Developer Guides

Please visit our
[online documentation](http://hyperledger-fabric.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) for
information on getting started using and developing with the fabric, SDK and chaincode.

It's recommended for first-time users to begin by going through the
[Getting Started](http://hyperledger-fabric.readthedocs.io/en/latest/getting_started.html)
section of the documentation in order to gain familiarity with the Hyperledger
Fabric components and the basic transaction flow.

## Contributing

We welcome contributions to the Hyperledger Fabric Project in many forms.
There’s always plenty to do! Check [the documentation on how to contribute to this project](http://hyperledger-fabric.readthedocs.io/en/latest/CONTRIBUTING.html)
for the full details.

## Community

[Hyperledger Community](https://www.hyperledger.org/community)

[Hyperledger mailing lists and archives](http://lists.hyperledger.org/)

[Hyperledger Chat](http://chat.hyperledger.org/channel/fabric)

[Hyperledger Fabric Issue Tracking](https://jira.hyperledger.org/secure/Dashboard.jspa?selectPageId=10104)

[Hyperledger Wiki](https://wiki.hyperledger.org/)

[Hyperledger Code of Conduct](https://wiki.hyperledger.org/community/hyperledger-project-code-of-conduct)

[Community Calendar](https://wiki.hyperledger.org/community/calendar-public-meetings)

## License <a name="license"></a>

Hyperledger Project source code files are made available under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (Apache-2.0), located in the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file. Hyperledger Project documentation files are made available under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License (CC-BY-4.0), available at http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.
