docs/source/Fabric-FAQ.rst, before:

Hyperledger Fabric FAQ
======================

Endorsement
-----------

**Endorsement architecture**:

Q. How many peers in the network need to endorse a transaction?

A. The number of peers required to endorse a transaction is driven by the endorsement
policy that is specified at chaincode deployment time.

Q. Does an application client need to connect to all peers?

A. Clients only need to connect to as many peers as are required by the
endorsement policy for the chaincode.

Security & Access Control
-------------------------

**Data Privacy and Access Control**:

Q. How do I ensure data privacy?

A. There are various aspects to data privacy.
First, you can segregate your network into channels, where each channel
represents a subset of participants that are authorized to see the data
for the chaincodes that are deployed to that channel.
Second, within a channel you can restrict the input data to chaincode to the
set of endorsers only, by using visibility settings. The visibility setting
will determine whether input and output chaincode data is included in the
submitted transaction,  versus just output data.
Third, you can hash or encrypt the data before calling chaincode. If you hash
the data then you will need to provide a means to share the source data.
If you encrypt the data then you will need to provide a means to share the
decryption keys.
Fourth, you can restrict data access to certain roles in your organization, by
building access control into the chaincode logic.
Fifth, ledger data at rest can be encrypted via file system encryption on
the peer, and data in-transit is encrypted via TLS.

Q. Do the orderers see the transaction data?

A. No, the orderers only order transactions, they do not open the transactions.
If you do not want the data to go through the orderers at all, and you are only
concerned about the input data, then you can use visibility settings. The
visibility setting will determine whether input and output chaincode data is
included in the submitted transaction,  versus just output data. Therefore,
the input data can be private to the endorsers only.
If you do not want the orderers to see chaincode output, then you can hash or
encrypt the data before calling chaincode. If you hash the data then you will
need to provide a meansto share the source data. If you encrypt the data then
you will need to provide a means to share the decryption keys.

Application-side Programming Model
----------------------------------

**Transaction execution result**:

Q. How do application clients know the outcome of a transaction?

A. The transaction simulation results are returned to the client by the
endorser in the proposal response.  If there are multiple endorsers, the
client can check that the responses are all the same, and submit the results
and endorsements for ordering and commitment. Ultimately the committing peers
will validate or invalidate the transaction, and the client becomes
aware of the outcome via an event, that the SDK makes available to the
application client.

**Ledger queries**:

Q. How do I query the ledger data?

A. Within chaincode you can query based on keys. Keys can be queried by range,
and composite keys can be modeled to enable equivalence queries against multiple
parameters. For example a composite key of (owner,asset_id) can be used to
query all assets owned by a certain entity. These key-based queries can be used
for read-only queries against the ledger, as well as in transactions that
update the ledger.

If you model asset data as JSON in chaincode and use CouchDB as the state
database, you can also perform complex rich queries against the chaincode
data values, using the CouchDB JSON query language within chaincode. The
application client can perform read-only queries, but these responses are
not typically submitted as part of transactions to the ordering service.

Q. How do I query the historical data to understand data provenance?

A. The chaincode API ``GetHistoryForKey()`` will return history of
values for a key.

Q. How to guarantee the query result is correct, especially when the peer being
queried may be recovering and catching up on block processing?

A. The client can query multiple peers, compare their block heights, compare
their query results, and favor the peers at the higher block heights.

Chaincode (Smart Contracts and Digital Assets)
----------------------------------------------

Q. Does Hyperledger Fabric support smart contract logic?

A. Yes. We call this feature :ref:`chaincode`. It is our interpretation of the
smart contract method/algorithm, with additional features.

A chaincode is programmatic code deployed on the network, where it is
executed and validated by chain validators together during the consensus
process. Developers can use chaincodes to develop business contracts,
asset definitions, and collectively-managed decentralized applications.

Q. How do I create a business contract?

A. There are generally two ways to develop business contracts: the first way is
to code individual contracts into standalone instances of chaincode; the
second way, and probably the more efficient way, is to use chaincode to
create decentralized applications that manage the life cycle of one or
multiple types of business contracts, and let end users instantiate
instances of contracts within these applications.

Q. How do I create assets?

A. Users can use chaincode (for business rules) and membership service (for digital tokens) to
design assets, as well as the logic that manages them.

There are two popular approaches to defining assets in most blockchain
solutions: the stateless UTXO model, where account balances are encoded
into past transaction records; and the account model, where account
balances are kept in state storage space on the ledger.

Each approach carries its own benefits and drawbacks. This blockchain
technology does not advocate either one over the other. Instead, one of our
first requirements was to ensure that both approaches can be easily
implemented.

Q. Which languages are supported for writing chaincode?

A. Chaincode can be written in any programming language and executed in
containers.  The first fully supported chaincode language is Golang.

Support for additional languages and the development of a templating language
have been discussed, and more details will be released in the near future.

It is also possible to build Hyperledger Fabric applications using
`Hyperledger Composer <https://hyperledger.github.io/composer/>`__.

Q. Does the Hyperledger Fabric have native currency?

A. No. However, if you really need a native currency for your chain network,
you can develop your own native currency with chaincode. One common attribute
of native currency is that some amount will get transacted (the chaincode
defining that currency will get called) every time a transaction is processed
on its chain.

.. Licensed under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License
   https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/

Commit message:

[FAB-6592] Update docs in release branch
We currently publish docs from master as latest.
But with 1.1 on the horizon, we need to version
our docs in RTD using branches and tags.

Change-Id: I0a1e65761e7c5532349bc25f467825a383ed4c54
Signed-off-by: Gari Singh <gari.r.singh@gmail.com>

docs/source/Fabric-FAQ.rst, after:

Hyperledger Fabric FAQ
======================

Endorsement
-----------

**Endorsement architecture**:

Q. How many peers in the network need to endorse a transaction?

A. The number of peers required to endorse a transaction is driven by the endorsement
policy that is specified at chaincode deployment time.

Q. Does an application client need to connect to all peers?

A. Clients only need to connect to as many peers as are required by the
endorsement policy for the chaincode.

Security & Access Control
-------------------------

**Data Privacy and Access Control**:

Q. How do I ensure data privacy?

A. There are various aspects to data privacy.
First, you can segregate your network into channels, where each channel
represents a subset of participants that are authorized to see the data
for the chaincodes that are deployed to that channel.
Second, within a channel you can restrict the input data to chaincode to the
set of endorsers only, by using visibility settings. The visibility setting
will determine whether input and output chaincode data is included in the
submitted transaction,  versus just output data.
Third, you can hash or encrypt the data before calling chaincode. If you hash
the data then you will need to provide a means to share the source data.
If you encrypt the data then you will need to provide a means to share the
decryption keys.
Fourth, you can restrict data access to certain roles in your organization, by
building access control into the chaincode logic.
Fifth, ledger data at rest can be encrypted via file system encryption on
the peer, and data in-transit is encrypted via TLS.

Q. Do the orderers see the transaction data?

A. No, the orderers only order transactions, they do not open the transactions.
If you do not want the data to go through the orderers at all, and you are only
concerned about the input data, then you can use visibility settings. The
visibility setting will determine whether input and output chaincode data is
included in the submitted transaction,  versus just output data. Therefore,
the input data can be private to the endorsers only.
If you do not want the orderers to see chaincode output, then you can hash or
encrypt the data before calling chaincode. If you hash the data then you will
need to provide a meansto share the source data. If you encrypt the data then
you will need to provide a means to share the decryption keys.

Application-side Programming Model
----------------------------------

**Transaction execution result**:

Q. How do application clients know the outcome of a transaction?

A. The transaction simulation results are returned to the client by the
endorser in the proposal response.  If there are multiple endorsers, the
client can check that the responses are all the same, and submit the results
and endorsements for ordering and commitment. Ultimately the committing peers
will validate or invalidate the transaction, and the client becomes
aware of the outcome via an event, that the SDK makes available to the
application client.

**Ledger queries**:

Q. How do I query the ledger data?

A. Within chaincode you can query based on keys. Keys can be queried by range,
and composite keys can be modeled to enable equivalence queries against multiple
parameters. For example a composite key of (owner,asset_id) can be used to
query all assets owned by a certain entity. These key-based queries can be used
for read-only queries against the ledger, as well as in transactions that
update the ledger.

If you model asset data as JSON in chaincode and use CouchDB as the state
database, you can also perform complex rich queries against the chaincode
data values, using the CouchDB JSON query language within chaincode. The
application client can perform read-only queries, but these responses are
not typically submitted as part of transactions to the ordering service.

Q. How do I query the historical data to understand data provenance?

A. The chaincode API ``GetHistoryForKey()`` will return history of
values for a key.

Q. How to guarantee the query result is correct, especially when the peer being
queried may be recovering and catching up on block processing?

A. The client can query multiple peers, compare their block heights, compare
their query results, and favor the peers at the higher block heights.

Chaincode (Smart Contracts and Digital Assets)
----------------------------------------------

Q. Does Hyperledger Fabric support smart contract logic?

A. Yes. We call this feature :ref:`chaincode`. It is our interpretation of the
smart contract method/algorithm, with additional features.

A chaincode is programmatic code deployed on the network, where it is
executed and validated by chain validators together during the consensus
process. Developers can use chaincodes to develop business contracts,
asset definitions, and collectively-managed decentralized applications.

Q. How do I create a business contract?

A. There are generally two ways to develop business contracts: the first way is
to code individual contracts into standalone instances of chaincode; the
second way, and probably the more efficient way, is to use chaincode to
create decentralized applications that manage the life cycle of one or
multiple types of business contracts, and let end users instantiate
instances of contracts within these applications.

Q. How do I create assets?

A. Users can use chaincode (for business rules) and membership service (for digital tokens) to
design assets, as well as the logic that manages them.

There are two popular approaches to defining assets in most blockchain
solutions: the stateless UTXO model, where account balances are encoded
into past transaction records; and the account model, where account
balances are kept in state storage space on the ledger.

Each approach carries its own benefits and drawbacks. This blockchain
technology does not advocate either one over the other. Instead, one of our
first requirements was to ensure that both approaches can be easily
implemented.

Q. Which languages are supported for writing chaincode?

A. Chaincode can be written in any programming language and executed in
containers.  The first fully supported chaincode language is Golang.

Support for additional languages and the development of a templating language
have been discussed, and more details will be released in the near future.

It is also possible to build Hyperledger Fabric applications using
`Hyperledger Composer <https://hyperledger.github.io/composer/>`__.

Q. Does the Hyperledger Fabric have native currency?

A. No. However, if you really need a native currency for your chain network,
you can develop your own native currency with chaincode. One common attribute
of native currency is that some amount will get transacted (the chaincode
defining that currency will get called) every time a transaction is processed
on its chain.

Differences in Most Recent Releases
-----------
Q. As part of the v1.0.0 release, what are the highlight differences between v0.6 and v1.0?

A. The differences between any subsequent releases are provided together with the
`Release Notes <http://hyperledger-fabric.readthedocs.io/en/latest/releases.html>`__.
Since Fabric is a pluggable modular framework, you can refer to the `design-docs
<https://wiki.hyperleger.org/projects/fabric/design-docs>`__ for further information of these difference.

Q. Where to get help for the technical questions not answered above?

A. Please use `StackOverflow <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/hyperledger>`__.


.. Licensed under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License
   https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
