docs/source/txflow.rst, before:

Transaction Flow
================

This document outlines the transactional mechanics that take place during a standard asset
exchange.  The scenario includes two clients, A and B, who are buying and selling
radishes.  They each have a peer on the network through which they send their
transactions and interact with the ledger.

.. image:: images/step0.png

**Assumptions**

This flow assumes that a channel is set up and running.  The application user
has registered and enrolled with the organization’s certificate authority (CA)
and received back necessary cryptographic material, which is used to authenticate
to the network.

The chaincode (containing a set of key value pairs representing the initial
state of the radish market) is installed on the peers and instantiated on the
channel.  The chaincode contains logic defining a set of transaction
instructions and the agreed upon price for a radish. An endorsement policy has
also been set for this chaincode, stating that both ``peerA`` and ``peerB`` must endorse
any transaction.

.. image:: images/step1.png

1. **Client A initiates a transaction**

What's happening? - Client A is sending a request to purchase radishes.  The
request targets ``peerA`` and ``peerB``, who are respectively representative of
Client A and Client B. The endorsement policy states that both peers must endorse
any transaction, therefore the request goes to ``peerA`` and ``peerB``.

Next, the transaction proposal is constructed.  An application leveraging a supported
SDK (Node, Java, Python) utilizes one of the available API's which generates a
transaction proposal.  The proposal is a request to invoke a chaincode function
so that data can be read and/or written to the ledger (i.e. write new key value
pairs for the assets).  The SDK serves as a shim to package the transaction proposal
into the properly architected format (protocol buffer over gRPC) and takes the user’s
cryptographic credentials to produce a unique signature for this transaction proposal.

.. image:: images/step2.png

2. **Endorsing peers verify signature & execute the transaction**

The endorsing peers verify (1) that the transaction proposal is well formed,
(2) it has not been submitted already in the past (replay-attack protection),
(3) the signature is valid (using MSP), and (4) that the
submitter (Client A, in the example) is properly authorized to perform
the proposed operation on that channel (namely, each endorsing peer ensures that
the submitter satisfies the channel's *Writers* policy).
The endorsing peers take the transaction proposal inputs as
arguments to the invoked chaincode's function. The chaincode is then
executed against the current state database to produce transaction
results including a response value, read set, and write set.  No updates are
made to the ledger at this point. The set of these values, along with the
endorsing peer’s signature and a YES/NO endorsement statement is passed back as
a “proposal response” to the SDK which parses the payload for the application to
consume.

*{The MSP is a peer component that allows them to verify
transaction requests arriving from clients and to sign transaction results(endorsements).
The *Writing* policy is defined at channel creation time, and determines
which user is entitled to submit a transaction to that channel.}*


.. image:: images/step3.png

3. **Proposal responses are inspected**

The application verifies the endorsing peer signatures and compares the proposal
responses (link to glossary term which will contain a representation of the payload)
to determine if the proposal responses are the same and if the specified endorsement
policy has been fulfilled (i.e. did peerA and peerB both endorse).  The architecture
is such that even if an application chooses not to inspect responses or otherwise
forwards an unendorsed transaction, the policy will still be enforced by peers
and upheld at the commit validation phase.

.. image:: images/step4.png

4. **Client assembles endorsements into a transaction**

The application “broadcasts” the transaction proposal and response within a
“transaction message” to the Ordering Service. The transaction will contain the
read/write sets, the endorsing peers signatures and the Channel ID.  The
Ordering Service does not need to inspect the entire content of a transaction in order to perform
its operation, it simply receives
transactions from all channels in the network, orders them chronologically by
channel, and creates blocks of transactions per channel.

.. image:: images/step5.png

5. **Transaction is validated and committed**

The blocks of transactions are “delivered” to all peers on the channel.  The
transactions within the block are validated to ensure endorsement policy is
fulfilled and to ensure that there have been no changes to ledger state for read
set variables since the read set was generated by the transaction execution.
Transactions in the block are tagged as being valid or invalid.

.. image:: images/step6.png

6. **Ledger updated**

Each peer appends the block to the channel’s chain, and for each valid transaction
the write sets are committed to current state database. An event is emitted, to
notify the client application that the transaction (invocation) has been
immutably appended to the chain, as well as notification of whether the
transaction was validated or invalidated.

**Note**: See the :ref:`swimlane` diagram to better understand the server side flow and the
protobuffers.

.. Licensed under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License
   https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/

Commit message:

[FAB-6592] Update docs in release branch
We currently publish docs from master as latest.
But with 1.1 on the horizon, we need to version
our docs in RTD using branches and tags.

Change-Id: I0a1e65761e7c5532349bc25f467825a383ed4c54
Signed-off-by: Gari Singh <gari.r.singh@gmail.com>

docs/source/txflow.rst, after:

Transaction Flow
================

This document outlines the transactional mechanics that take place during a standard asset
exchange.  The scenario includes two clients, A and B, who are buying and selling
radishes.  They each have a peer on the network through which they send their
transactions and interact with the ledger.

.. image:: images/step0.png

**Assumptions**

This flow assumes that a channel is set up and running.  The application user
has registered and enrolled with the organization’s certificate authority (CA)
and received back necessary cryptographic material, which is used to authenticate
to the network.

The chaincode (containing a set of key value pairs representing the initial
state of the radish market) is installed on the peers and instantiated on the
channel.  The chaincode contains logic defining a set of transaction
instructions and the agreed upon price for a radish. An endorsement policy has
also been set for this chaincode, stating that both ``peerA`` and ``peerB`` must endorse
any transaction.

.. image:: images/step1.png

1. **Client A initiates a transaction**

What's happening? - Client A is sending a request to purchase radishes.  The
request targets ``peerA`` and ``peerB``, who are respectively representative of
Client A and Client B. The endorsement policy states that both peers must endorse
any transaction, therefore the request goes to ``peerA`` and ``peerB``.

Next, the transaction proposal is constructed.  An application leveraging a supported
SDK (Node, Java, Python) utilizes one of the available API's which generates a
transaction proposal.  The proposal is a request to invoke a chaincode function
so that data can be read and/or written to the ledger (i.e. write new key value
pairs for the assets).  The SDK serves as a shim to package the transaction proposal
into the properly architected format (protocol buffer over gRPC) and takes the user’s
cryptographic credentials to produce a unique signature for this transaction proposal.

.. image:: images/step2.png

2. **Endorsing peers verify signature & execute the transaction**

The endorsing peers verify (1) that the transaction proposal is well formed,
(2) it has not been submitted already in the past (replay-attack protection),
(3) the signature is valid (using MSP), and (4) that the
submitter (Client A, in the example) is properly authorized to perform
the proposed operation on that channel (namely, each endorsing peer ensures that
the submitter satisfies the channel's *Writers* policy).
The endorsing peers take the transaction proposal inputs as
arguments to the invoked chaincode's function. The chaincode is then
executed against the current state database to produce transaction
results including a response value, read set, and write set.  No updates are
made to the ledger at this point. The set of these values, along with the
endorsing peer’s signature is passed back as a “proposal response” to the SDK
which parses the payload for the application to consume.

*{The MSP is a peer component that allows them to verify
transaction requests arriving from clients and to sign transaction results(endorsements).
The Writing policy is defined at channel creation time, and determines
which user is entitled to submit a transaction to that channel.}*


.. image:: images/step3.png

3. **Proposal responses are inspected**

The application verifies the endorsing peer signatures and compares the proposal
responses to determine if the proposal responses are the same. If the chaincode only queried
the ledger, the application would inspect the query response and would typically not
submit the transaction to Ordering Service. If the client application intends to submit the
transaction to Ordering Service to update the ledger, the application determines if the specified
endorsement policy has been fulfilled before submitting (i.e. did peerA and peerB both endorse).
The architecture is such that even if an application chooses not to inspect responses or otherwise
forwards an unendorsed transaction, the endorsement policy will still be enforced by peers
and upheld at the commit validation phase.

.. image:: images/step4.png

4. **Client assembles endorsements into a transaction**

The application “broadcasts” the transaction proposal and response within a
“transaction message” to the Ordering Service. The transaction will contain the
read/write sets, the endorsing peers signatures and the Channel ID.  The
Ordering Service does not need to inspect the entire content of a transaction in order to perform
its operation, it simply receives
transactions from all channels in the network, orders them chronologically by
channel, and creates blocks of transactions per channel.

.. image:: images/step5.png

5. **Transaction is validated and committed**

The blocks of transactions are “delivered” to all peers on the channel.  The
transactions within the block are validated to ensure endorsement policy is
fulfilled and to ensure that there have been no changes to ledger state for read
set variables since the read set was generated by the transaction execution.
Transactions in the block are tagged as being valid or invalid.

.. image:: images/step6.png

6. **Ledger updated**

Each peer appends the block to the channel’s chain, and for each valid transaction
the write sets are committed to current state database. An event is emitted, to
notify the client application that the transaction (invocation) has been
immutably appended to the chain, as well as notification of whether the
transaction was validated or invalidated.

**Note**: See the :ref:`swimlane` diagram to better understand the server side flow and the
protobuffers.

.. Licensed under Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License
   https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
